samples: matter: Refactor nRF54H20 partition in samples (#19735)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/matter/template/README.rst

Note that in this case, the size of the application partition is half of what it would be when using a configuration with external flash memory support.

SUIT DFU on nRF54H20
--------------------

.. matter_template_dfu_suit_start

> nRF54H20 Matter devices support :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matter devices running on an nRF54H20 SoC support :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu`.
```

> You can use SUIT mechanisms to update Application and Radio cores firmware as well as the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries* provided by Nordic Semiconductor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use SUIT mechanisms to update both the application and radio core firmware as well as the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries* provided by Nordic Semiconductor.
```

Currently, Matter samples support only the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` approach and the *Push* firmware update model.

> The default SUIT manifest template files are located in the ``config/suit/templates/nrf54h20/matter/v1`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default SUIT manifest template files are located in the :file:`config/suit/templates/nrf54h20/matter/v1` directory.
```

> You can change the SUIT manifest template files source directory by setting the ``SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT`` sysbuild configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the source directory of the SUIT manifest template files, set the ``SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT`` sysbuild configuration option.
```

Currently, only DFU over the :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu` protocol is fully supported for this sample without any external tools.

> To perform a firmware update using the Simple Management Protocol (SMP) over |Bluetooth| LE, you need an external tool that supports :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_smp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform a firmware update using the Simple Management Protocol (SMP) over Bluetooth LE, you need an external tool that supports :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_smp`.
```

> To perform a firmware update of the Application and Radio cores firmware using the :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu` protocol, ensure that the ``MATTER_OTA`` sysbuild configuration option is set to ``y`` and perform the firmware update as usual following the :doc:`matter:nrfconnect_examples_software_update` user guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform a firmware update of the application and radio core firmware using the :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu` protocol, ensure that the ``MATTER_OTA`` sysbuild configuration option is set to ``y`` and perform the firmware update as usual following the :doc:`matter:nrfconnect_examples_software_update` user guide.
```

> In this case, the *nRF54H20 SoC Nordic binaries* will not be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries* will not be updated.
```

> To update the *nRF54H20 SoC Nordic binaries*, you need to follow the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries_root_in_manufacturer` user guide and additionally define the cache partition size according to the device tree configuration using the ``SUIT_DFU_CACHE_PARTITION_1_EB_SIZE`` CMake variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries*, follow the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries_root_in_manufacturer` user guide and define the cache partition size according to the devicetree configuration using the ``SUIT_DFU_CACHE_PARTITION_1_EB_SIZE`` CMake variable.
```

By default, the cache partition size is set to 2048 kB.

> To see the exact value of the cache 1 partition size, see the device tree configuration file and find the ``dfu_cache_partition_1`` node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the exact value of the cache 1 partition size, see the devicetree configuration file and find the ``dfu_cache_partition_1`` node.
```

> For example, you can use the following command to prepare DFU files which include *nRF54H20 SoC Nordic binaries* for Matter OTA:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can use the following command to prepare the DFU files that include the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries* for Matter OTA:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\"" -DSUIT_DFU_CACHE_PARTITION_1_EB_SIZE=2048

> To perform a firmware update using the SMP over |Bluetooth| LE protocol, write the following files to the device using an external tool and the SUIT SMP extension described in the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_smp` user guide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform a firmware update using the SMP over the Bluetooth LE protocol, write the following files to the device using an external tool and the SUIT SMP extension described in the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_smp` user guide:
```

>    1. :file:`<build_dir>/DFU/root.suit` into slot 0.
>    #. :file:`<build_dir>/DFU/dfu_cache_partition_1.bin` into slot 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :file:`<build_dir>/DFU/root.suit` into slot 0.
* :file:`<build_dir>/DFU/dfu_cache_partition_1.bin` into slot 1.
```
